d20 | Lingering Injury
---|---
1 | **Ocular Damage.** One of your corneas is damaged from frostbite. You have disadvantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight and on ranged attack rolls. Magic such as the *regenerate* spell can restore the damaged cornea. If you have no corneas that remain undamaged after sustaining this injury, you're blinded.
2 | **Systemic Damage from Frostbite.** You have disadvantage on Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution ability checks and Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution saving throws. Magic such as the *regenerate* spell cures this damage.
3 | **Gangrene of the Hand.** You can no longer hold anything with two hands, and you can hold only a single object at a time. Magic such as the *regenerate* spell can restore the crushed appendage.
4 | **Gangrene of the Foot.** Your speed on foot is halved, and you must use a cane or crutch to move. You fall prone after using the Dash action. You have disadvantage on Dexterity checks made to balance. Magic such as the *regenerate* spell can restore the crushed appendage.
5–7 | **Major Neuralgia.** You have constant, painful nerve damage over a large portion of your body. Whenever you attempt an action in combat, you must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, you lose your action and can't use reactions until the start of your next turn. Magical healing of 6th level or higher, such as *heal* and *regenerate*, cures the neuralgia, or if you spend twenty days doing nothing but resting it resolves on its own.
8–10 | **Frostbitten Foot.** Your speed on foot is reduced by 5 feet. You must make a DC 10 Dexterity saving throw after using the Dash action. If you fail the save, you fall prone. Magical healing cures the frostbite. Alternately, your foot can be treated with a successful DC 15 Wisdom (Medicine) check, in which case it will heal naturally in 2 weeks.
11–13 | **Frostbitten hand.** Randomly determine which hand has been frostbitten. In order to grasp or manipulate an object with that hand, you must succeed at a DC 15 Dexterity check. Magical healing cures the frostbite. Alternately, your hand can be treated with a successful DC 15 Wisdom (Medicine) check, in which case it will heal naturally in 2 weeks.
14–16 | **Minor Neuralgia.** This has the same effect as Major Neuralgia above, except that the save DC is 10 and it only takes ten days to resolve on its own.
17–20 | **Anosmia.** You lose your sense of smell and taste. You automatically fail any ability checks that involve your sense of smell or taste. The condition heals if you receive any magical healing.
